---
description: >-
  This page details the instructions for upgrading your Cinchy platform to v5.5
  on Kubernetes
---

# v5.5 (Kubernetes)

## Upgrading on Kubernetes

When it comes time to upgrade your various components, you can do so by following the below instructions.

{% hint style="danger" %}
This release requires you to run the Cinchy Upgrade Utility. [**Please review and follow the directives for Upgrade 5.5 here.**](https://app.gitbook.com/o/-LDtM6UlhGoQ91uwM5SF/s/F1vvLbEMfTF1UqCFU9hs/~/changes/287/deployment-guide/upgrade-guides/upgrading-cinchy-versions/cinchy-upgrade-utility)

<mark style="color:red;">**Additionally,**</mark>** If you are upgrading from Cinchy v5.1 or lower to Cinchy v5.5, you must first run a mandatory process (Upgrade 5.2)** [**using the Cinchy Utility**](https://app.gitbook.com/o/-LDtM6UlhGoQ91uwM5SF/s/F1vvLbEMfTF1UqCFU9hs/~/changes/287/deployment-guide/upgrade-guides/upgrading-cinchy-versions/cinchy-upgrade-utility) **and deploy version 5.2. Once complete, you can continue on with your 5.5 upgrade.**
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="danger" %}
**If you are upgrading from Cinchy v5.3 or lower to Cinchy v5.5 on an SQL Server Database**, you will need to make a change to your `connectionString`. Adding [**TrustServerCertificate=True**](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.data.sqlclient.sqlconnectionstringbuilder.trustservercertificate?view=dotnet-plat-ext-6.0) will allow you to bypass the certificate chain during validation.

For a Kubernetes deployment, you can add this value in your **deployment.json file:**

```json
"cinchy_instance_configs": {
          "database_connection_string": "User ID=cinchy;Password=<password>;Host=<
```

{% endhint %}

## Prerequisites

- Download the latest Cinchy Artifacts from the **Cinchy Releases Table > Kubernetes Artifacts** column _(Image 1)._ **For this upgrade, please download the Cinchy v5.5 k8s-template.zip file.**

## Configure to the newest version

1. Navigate to your **cinchy.argocd** repository. **Delete** all existing folder structure except for the **.git folder/directory** and any custom changes you may have implemented.
2. Navigate to your **cinchy.kubernetes** repository. **Delete** all existing folder structure except for the **.git file** and any custom changes you may have implemented.

{% hint style="danger" %}
If you have `cinchy.kubernetes\cluster_components\servicemesh\istio\istio-injection\argocd-ns.yaml` file and it's _not commented_ then please keep it as is. Changing this will delete your ArgoCD namespace, which will force you to delete everything from Kubernetes and redeploy.
{% endhint %}

4. Navigate to your **cinchy.terraform** repository. **Delete** all existing folder structure except for the **.git file** and any custom changes you may have implemented.
5. Navigate to your **cinchy.devops.automation** repository. **Delete** all existing folder structure except for the **.git file** and any custom changes you may have implemented and your **deployment.json.**
6. Open the new **Cinchy v5.4 k8s-template.zip file** you downloaded from the Cinchy Releases table and **check the files** into their respective **cinchy.kubernetes**, **cinchy.argocd**, **cinchy.terraform** and **cinchy.devops.automation** repositories.
7. Navigate to the new **aws.json/azure.json files** and compare them with your current **deployment.json file**. Any additional fields in the new aws.json/azure.json files should be added to your current deployment.json.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Note that you may have changed the name of the **deployment.json file** during your original platform deployment. If so, ensure that you swap up the name wherever it appears in this document.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Starting in Cinchy v5.4, you will have the option between Alpine or Debian based image tags for the listener, worker, and connections. **Using Debian tags will allow a Kubernetes deployment to be able to connect to a DB2 data source, and that option should be selected if you plan on leveraging a DB2 data sync.**

- When either installing or upgrading your platform, you can use the following Docker image tags for the **listener, worker, and connections:**
  - **"5.x.x" - Alpine**
  - **"5.x.x-debian" - Debian**
    {% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Perform this step only If you are upgrading to 5.5 on an SQL Server Database and didn't already make this change in any previous updates.** Navigate to your **cinchy_instance_configs section > database_connection_string**, and add in the following value to the end of your string: [**TrustServerCertificate=True**](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.data.sqlclient.sqlconnectionstringbuilder.trustservercertificate?view=dotnet-plat-ext-6.0)

<pre><code><strong>"cinchy_instance_configs": {
</strong>          "database_connection_string": "User ID=cinchy;Password=<password>;Host=<db_hostname>;Port=5432;Database=development;Timeout=300;Keepalive=300;TrustServerCertificate=True",
</code></pre>

{% endhint %}

8. Open a shell/terminal from the **cinchy.devops.automations** directory and execute the following command:

```
dotnet Cinchy.DevOps.Automations.dll "deployment.json"
```

9. Commit all your changes (if there were any) in each repository.
10. If there were any changes in your **cinchy.argocd** repository you may need to redeploy ArgoCD.
    1. Launch a shell/terminal with the working directory set to the root of the **cinchy.argocd** repository.
    2. Execute the following command to deploy ArgoCD:

```
bash deploy_argocd.sh
```

11. If there were any change to the cluster components, execute the following command from the **cinchy.argocd** repository:

```
bash deploy_cluster_components.sh
```

12. If there were any change to the Cinchy instance, execute the following command from the **cinchy.argocd** repository:

```
bash deploy_cinchy_components.sh
```

13. Log in to your ArgoCD application console and refresh the apps to ensure that all changes were picked up.


